So what about optional properties?
Let's extend our model of a car and
we'll say, sometimes we have
an electric car and
they wanna charge at a particular voltage.
So what is that chargeVoltage?
Is it 240 volts, what is it?
Now, chargeVoltage doesn't make any
sense for a car that runs on gasoline.
So, Let's say that for
electric cars we will find this value,
but for non-electric cars
this value will be missing.
So this is an optional property
that may or may not be there.
It's sometimes there, and it's a number.
So we're going to use this question
mark to state that chargeVoltage
might be there, but
if it is there it will be a number.
And if we hover over this,
the type of chargeVoltage,
its number and then a pipe and undefined.
Can someone make a guess
as to what the pipe means?
When do we see a pipe in JavaScript?
Maybe two pipes next to each other.
>> Means or?
>> It means or, very good.
So you can think of this as or for types.
I see a lot of people in
the chat got it as well.
So we'll talk more about and and
or, it is possible with types.
But here we're seeing something that
conceptually aligns with what we set
out to do.
And that is, it may or may not be there.
So here we can see we
regenerate our string.
Here's our chargeVoltage,
and this is interesting.
So, what we're doing here is
we're gonna make a basic string,
and then I've just put this
line here to kind of reveal
the type of chargeVoltage
that has this undefined.
And then we have this condition.
And at run time,
if we think about what this will do,
we're checking to see if
chargeVoltage is defined or it's not.
So we're creating a branch of
code that will only execute if
something is there for chargeVoltage.
And sure enough,
we can see that we've eliminated
the undefined possibility here, right?
If we go down this branch of code,
TypeScript seems to be able to understand
that we're gonna have a number there,
and we can use it.
We can print it as a number, right?
This is what's called a type guard.
It's where you typically will
combine some sort of predicate,
like a check true or
false expression, right?
You'll combine that with some control
flow tool like if or a case switch.
And in doing that, you'll create
branches of code where the compiler can
understand that like we'll take
a left turn if we're undefined,
and we'll take a right
turn if we are defined.
And that allows you to kind of
consume these things safely.
By the way,
this is one of those key points I talked
about where people love TypeScript.
Every time I convert a JavaScript code
base to TypeScript I find a bunch of
these, where somebody was sort of betting
on this value will probably be there.
And it turns out,
there's no code that guarantees that,
TypeScript is gonna demand that we put
this line here in order to start using it.
We can go out to the playground and
give this a shot.
So if we were to take this away, and
let me make this a little
bit more obvious,
we'll say, toFixed, right?
So I'm just trying to use this in a way
that's gonna really break if it's
something other than a number.
If we got rid of this type guard, it's
just gonna say, look, you can't do that.
This could be undefined, you can't
just reach into it and call toFixed.
So the type guard serves that purpose.
And I guarantee you write
JavaScript code today
that is missing these in important places.
I know, I do it all the time.
Like every time I convert,
I find a bunch of these.
So, because we have
this optional property,
we can either pass this value in as
we are down here, or we can omit it.
Now, some of you may wonder what if
here, For this chargeVoltage,
what if I did this?
And let's try to use it.
So something's not happy here.
And if we look at this error,
it's a little hard to read.
I read TypeScript errors from the bottom
up cuz they're kind of like stack traces,
especially in this case where we have
a problem with the whole object.
That lowest line and
the error message will tell you
the property that caused the problem.
So we're seeing, okay,
chargeVoltage is declared here,
chargeVoltage is missing in type,
and then it lists the type, but
it's required in type, and
then it lists another type here.
So what we're saying here is if
I didn't have a chargeVoltage,
I actually have to do
chargeVoltage is undefined.
I have to pass in an undefined,
that's kind of weird.
There's a difference between
an optional property and
a property that has the potential
to have an undefined value.
Optional properties can be left out,
but if you do this,
someone's gonna have to pass an undefined,
which is really weird.
I don't like passing undefined in
as a deliberate argument, right?
That's kind of strange, or
deliberate property value.
So, that's the difference.
And I see some face palms in chat.
This is a justifiable facepalm.
So, yeah, you wouldn't be able to do this.
So optional is more than simply
adding that or undefined.
It means that it can be present,
it can be absent.
There is another type of error
that TypeScript catches for
us called excess property checking.
And again, I'm gonna illustrate this with
an example that builds potentially one
more thing onto our car model.
So we have our make, model, and year.
And let's say that someone
got really eager and
they decided they want to describe
the color of their car and
pass that into this function.
So we're getting what's called
an excess property error,
and the keywords to look for
here is object literal may
only specify known properties right here.
And color is not one of those properties.
So it's saying, you gave me this thing and
I didn't ask for it.
And if we eliminated it,
everything would be fine, why?
Why is TypeScript mad at us?
This won't break your code.
The fact that red's there won't break
your code, so why are we being alerted?
Well, If we started to use car in here,
there's no way to safely
access that color property.
So it's a case where when we're changing,
when we have that color property there,
we're setting ourselves up to never be
able to safely access that extra thing.
It's like an appendix,
it's this vestigial thing that serves
no purpose can safely be eliminated,
we know conclusively.
So there are a couple things we could
do if we wanted to handle this case,
and I'm going to show
you a couple of them.
First, we could certainly say oops,
we can make it optional.
This would make this thing go
away cuz potentially in here,
we could use the undefined check,
we could access color,
it's no longer a pointless
thing to pass in.
So that's one thing we could do.
And here's another thing that
sort of makes the point as to
how the compiler is trying to help us.
Let's, myCar, let's give it a value,
or variable, rather.
So here,
we're also not getting an error, why?
Well, conceivably,
something else other than printCar,
could reach into this my car thing,
And get color.
That's totally fair.
It's no longer definitely pointless
to have that color property on there.
And when we talk about object literal,
like access object literal
property checking, it had to do with
the fact that we were just passing
this thing in directly to
the function as an object literal.
And that's why we were guaranteed that
like nobody is ever gonna be able
to make use of this color property.
No one else has access to it.
It just lives in the argument list
of this one invocation of print car.
It lives in a stack frame.
And so definitely no one else
is gonna be able to use it.
So you will see errors like that when
you convert something from JavaScript to
TypeScript, and
you'll solve it a number of ways.
As you're doing your early conversions,
it's gonna be because your
types were missing something like,
yeah, color, we need to handle color.
And then you're gonna start to find things
where there's like a misspelling or
something weird.
So we saw three different
ways to solve this.
Remove the property, add the property
to the type, or create a variable.
Because conceivably, something else could
access color through that variable.